Acrobatic	You are skilled at leaping, jumping, and flying.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Acrobatics and Fly skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Agile Maneuvers (Combat)	You've learned to use your quickness in place of brute force when performing combat maneuvers.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You add your Dexterity bonus to your base attack bonus and size bonus when determining your Combat Maneuver Bonus (see Combat) instead of your Strength bonus.	Normal: You add your Strength bonus to your base attack bonus and size bonus when determining your Combat Maneuver Bonus.	
Alertness	You often notice things that others might miss.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on Perception and Sense Motive skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
Animal Affinity	You are skilled at working with animals and mounts.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal and Ride skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Armor Proficiency, Light (Combat)	You are skilled at wearing light armor.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: When you wear a type of armor with which you are proficient, the armor check penalty for that armor applies only to Dexterity- and Strength-based skill checks.	Normal: A character who is wearing armor with which he is not proficient applies its armor check penalty to attack rolls and to all skill checks that involve moving.	Special: All characters except monks, sorcerers, and wizards automatically have Light Armor Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.	
Athletic	You possess inherent physical prowess.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on Climb and Swim skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Blind-Fight (Combat)	You are skilled at attacking opponents that you cannot clearly perceive.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: In melee, every time you miss because of concealment (see Combat), you can reroll your miss chance percentile roll one time to see if you actually hit.	An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you in melee. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible. The invisible attacker's bonuses do still apply for ranged attacks, however.	You do not need to make Acrobatics skill checks to move at full speed while blinded.	Normal: Regular attack roll modifiers for invisible attackers trying to hit you apply, and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC. The speed reduction for darkness and poor visibility also applies.	Special: The Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character who is the subject of a blink spell.	
Catch Off-Guard (Combat)	Foes are surprised by your skilled use of unorthodox and improvised weapons.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You do not suffer any penalties for using an improvised melee weapon. Unarmed opponents are flat-footed against any attacks you make with an improvised melee weapon.	Normal: You take a &ndash;4 penalty on attack rolls made with an improvised weapon.		
Combat Casting	You are adept at spellcasting when threatened or distracted.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on concentration checks made to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability when casting on the defensive or while grappled.	
Combat Reflexes (Combat)	You can make additional attacks of opportunity.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You may make a number of additional attacks of opportunity per round equal to your Dexterity bonus. With this feat, you may also make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.	Normal: A character without this feat can make only one attack of opportunity per round and can't make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.	Special: The Combat Reflexes feat does not allow a rogue to use her opportunist ability more than once per round.	
Deceitful	You are skilled at deceiving others, both with the spoken word and with physical disguises.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Bluff and Disguise skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Defensive Combat Training (Combat)	You excel at defending yourself from all manner of combat maneuvers.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You treat your total Hit Dice as your base attack bonus when calculating your Combat Maneuver Defense (see Combat). 		
Deft Hands	You have exceptional manual dexterity.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on Disable Device and Sleight of Hand skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.		
Empower Spell (Metamagic)	You can increase the power of your spells, causing them to deal more damage.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are increased by half, including bonuses to those dice rolls.	Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected, nor are spells without random variables. An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.	
Endurance	Harsh conditions or long exertions do not easily tire you.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: Swim checks made to resist nonlethal damage from exhaustion; Constitution checks made to continue running; Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from a forced march; Constitution checks made to hold your breath; Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from starvation or thirst; Fortitude saves made to avoid nonlethal damage from hot or cold environments; and Fortitude saves made to resist damage from suffocation.	You may sleep in light or medium armor without becoming fatigued.	Normal: A character without this feat who sleeps in medium or heavier armor is fatigued the next day.	
Enlarge Spell (Metamagic)	You can increase the range of your spells.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You can alter a spell with a range of close, medium, or long to increase its range by 100%. An enlarged spell with a range of close now has a range of 50 ft. + 5 ft./level, while medium-range spells have a range of 200 ft. + 20 ft./level and long-range spells have a range of 800 ft. + 80 ft./level. An enlarged spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.	Spells whose ranges are not defined by distance, as well as spells whose ranges are not close, medium, or long, do not benefit from this feat.	
Eschew Materials	You can cast many spells without needing to utilize minor material components.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You can cast any spell with a material component costing 1 gp or less without needing that component. The casting of the spell still provokes attacks of opportunity as normal. If the spell requires a material component that costs more than 1 gp, you must have the material component on hand to cast the spell, as normal.	
	
Extend Spell (Metamagic)	You can make your spells last twice as long.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. A spell with a duration of concentration, instantaneous, or permanent is not affected by this feat. An extended spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.	
Fleet	You are faster than most.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: While you are wearing light or no armor, your base speed increases by 5 feet. You lose the benefits of this feat if you carry a medium or heavy load.	Special: You can take this feat multiple times. The effects stack. 	
Great Fortitude	You are resistant to poisons, diseases, and other maladies.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws.	
Heighten Spell (Metamagic)	You can cast spells as if they were a higher level.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: A heightened spell has a higher spell level than normal (up to a maximum of 9th level). Unlike other metamagic feats, Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the spell that it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as saving throw DCs and ability to penetrate a lesser globe of invulnerability) are calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened spell is as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective level. 	
Improved Counterspell	You are skilled at countering the spells of others using similar spells.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: When counterspelling, you may use a spell of the same school that is one or more spell levels higher than the target spell.	Normal: Without this feat, you may counter a spell only with the same spell or with a spell specifically designated as countering the target spell.	
Improved Initiative (Combat)	Your quick reflexes allow you to react rapidly to danger.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on initiative checks.		
Improved Unarmed Strike (Combat)	You are skilled at fighting while unarmed.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You are considered to be armed even when unarmed&mdash;you do not provoke attacks of opportunity when you attack foes while unarmed. Your unarmed strikes can deal lethal or nonlethal damage, at your choice.	Normal: Without this feat, you are considered unarmed when attacking with an unarmed strike, and you can deal only nonlethal damage with such an attack.	
Intimidating Prowess (Combat)	Your physical might is intimidating to others.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: Add your Strength modifier to Intimidate skill checks in addition to your Charisma modifier.	Lightning Reflexes	You have faster reflexes than normal.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws.	
Magical Aptitude	You are skilled at spellcasting and using magic items.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Spellcraft checks and Use Magic Device checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Martial Weapon Proficiency (Combat)	Choose a type of martial weapon. You understand how to use that type of martial weapon in combat.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You make attack rolls with the selected weapon normally (without the non-proficient penalty).	Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not proficient, you take a &ndash;4 penalty on attack rolls.	Special: Barbarians, fighters, paladins, and rangers are proficient with all martial weapons. They need not select this feat.	You can gain Martial Weapon Proficiency multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon. 	
Maximize Spell (Metamagic)	Your spells have the maximum possible effect.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of a spell modified by this feat are maximized. Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected, nor are spells without random variables. A maximized spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell's actual level.	An empowered, maximized spell gains the separate benefits of each feat: the maximum result plus half the normally rolled result.		
Persuasive	You are skilled at swaying attitudes and intimidating others into your way of thinking.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on Diplomacy and Intimidate skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Point-Blank Shot (Combat)	You are especially accurate when making ranged attacks against close targets.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet.			
Quicken Spell (Metamagic)	You can cast spells in a fraction of the normal time.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: Casting a quickened spell is a swift action. You can perform another action, even casting another spell, in the same round as you cast a quickened spell. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 round or 1 full-round action cannot be quickened.	A quickened spell uses up a spell slot four levels higher than the spell's actual level. Casting a quickened spell doesn't provoke an attack of opportunity.	Special: You can apply the effects of this feat to a spell cast spontaneously, so long as it has a casting time that is not more than 1 full-round action, without increasing the spell's casting time.	
Run	You are swift of foot.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: When running, you move five times your normal speed (if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carrying no more than a medium load) or four times your speed (if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load). If you make a jump after a running start (see the Acrobatics skill description), you gain a +4 bonus on your Acrobatics check. While running, you retain your Dexterity bonus to your Armor Class.	Normal: You move four times your speed while running (if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carrying no more than a medium load) or three times your speed (if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load), and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC.	
Self-Sufficient	You know how to get along in the wild and how to effectively treat wounds.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Heal checks and Survival checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.		
Shield Proficiency (Combat)	You are trained in how to properly use a shield.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: When you use a shield (except a tower shield), the shield's armor check penalty only applies to Strength- and Dexterity-based skills.	Normal: When you are using a shield with which you are not proficient, you take the shield's armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving.	Special: Barbarians, bards, clerics, druids, fighters, paladins, and rangers all automatically have Shield Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.		
Silent Spell (Metamagic)	You can cast your spells without making any sound.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: A silent spell can be cast with no verbal components. Spells without verbal components are not affected. A silent spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.	Special: Bard spells cannot be enhanced by this feat.	
Simple Weapon Proficiency (Combat)	You are trained in the use of basic weapons.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You make attack rolls with simple weapons without penalty.	Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not proficient, you take a &ndash;4 penalty on attack rolls.	Special: All characters except for druids, monks, and wizards are automatically proficient with all simple weapons. They need not select this feat.	Skill Focus	Choose a skill. You are particularly adept at that skill.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +3 bonus on all checks involving the chosen skill. If you have 10 or more ranks in that skill, this bonus increases to +6.	Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new skill.		
Spell Focus	Choose a school of magic. Any spells you cast of that school are more difficult to resist.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic you select.	Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic.	
Spell Penetration	Your spells break through spell resistance more easily than most.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) made to overcome a creature's spell resistance.	
Stealthy	You are good at avoiding unwanted attention and slipping out of bonds.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Escape Artist and Stealth skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.	
Still Spell (Metamagic)	You can cast spells without moving.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: A stilled spell can be cast with no somatic components. Spells without somatic components are not affected. A stilled spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.		
Throw Anything (Combat)	You are used to throwing things you have on hand.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You do not suffer any penalties for using an improvised ranged weapon. You receive a +1 circumstance bonus on attack rolls made with thrown splash weapons.	Normal: You take a &ndash;4 penalty on attack rolls made with an improvised weapon.	
Toughness	You have enhanced physical stamina.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You gain +3 hit points. For every Hit Die you possess beyond 3, you gain an additional +1 hit point. If you have more than 3 Hit Dice, you gain +1 hit points whenever you gain a Hit Die (such as when you gain a level).	
Weapon Finesse (Combat)	You are trained in using your agility in melee combat, as opposed to brute strength.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: With a light weapon, rapier, whip, or spiked chain made for a creature of your size category, you may use your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls. If you carry a shield, its armor check penalty applies to your attack rolls.	Special: Natural weapons are considered light weapons.	
Widen Spell (Metamagic)	You can cast your spells so that they occupy a larger space.	No Prerequisites	Benefit: You can alter a burst, emanation, or spread-shaped spell to increase its area. Any numeric measurements of the spell's area increase by 100%. A widened spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell's actual level.	Spells that do not have an area of one of these four sorts are not affected by this feat.	